ReadMe.md, before:


# fillwan 
## FILLWord ANalysis

This tool analyzes a given text for fill words and other potentially unwanted words and expressions in scientific writing.
Outputs statistics and a list of found words with occurrence count. With the ``-d`` option it dumps the original text with the expressions being highlighted.


### Analyzed Words/Expressions (English)

A list of some analyzed categories with examples can be found below.
All expressions are found in the [source file](src/words_en.hpp).

* first person perspective (I, my, we, our, ...)
* conjunctive (could, would, ...)
* transition words (but, therefore, ...)
* colloquial terms (okay, nice, stuff, ...)
* fill words (indeed, really, very, ...)
* weakening expressions (quite, most, probably, ...)
* words and adjectives with little meaning (good, right, thing, ...)
* commonly overused expression (be seen, is shown, for example, ...)


### Analysierte Wörter/Ausdrücke (German)

Eine Liste aller Ausdrücke befindet sich [im Quellcode](src/words_de.hpp).

* Personalpronomen (ich, mein, wir, uns, ...)
* Indefinitpronomen (man)
* Passivformen (wurde, werden, ...)
* Konjunktivformen (sei, wäre, könne, würde, ...)
* Füllwörter (auch, meist, wohl, ...)
* Konjunktionen und Satzverbindungen (außerdem, nichtsdestotrotz, im nächsten Schritt, ...)
* häufig überbenutzte Formulierungen ("zu sehen ist", "es ergibt sich", "in dieser Arbeit", ...)
* umgangssprachliche Formen (eh, halt, irgendwas, ...)
* ungenaue Adjektive oder Wörter mit wenig Aussagekraft (gut, schlecht, einigermaßen, oft, ...)

---
### Usage

The below program options are also displayed using the ``-h`` parameter.

```
usage: fillwan [options] [file]
reads from standard input if no file is provided

options:
-h | --help              display this help
-l | --lang (EN | DE)    language selection. English or German. Default: EN
-c | --color             enable colored output
-d | --dump              dump text with highlighted fill expressions
-a | --alpha             sort occurrence map alphabetically, not by count
```

For the following commands a Unix system including the ``grep``, ``cat``, and ``less`` utilities is assumed.

You can either pipe text into fillwan like:
```
cat text.txt | fillwan
```

Or load the text file directly:
```
fillwan text.txt
```

**Example 1**: Scroll interactively through the text with the expressions being highlighted:
```
cat text.txt | fillwan -cd | less -RN
```

**Example 2**: Scroll through all lines containing fill expressions, show line numbers from original text
```
cat text.txt | fillwan -d | grep --color=always -ne "<<[^>]\+>>" | less -R
```

---
### Screenshots

Default usage of fillwan, here showing statistics on a test text:

![fillwan showing statistics](screenshots/statistics_en-fs8.png)


The following command instead dumps the text with the expressions highlighted:

![fillwan example with dump option](screenshots/dump_en-fs8.png)

---
### Building Instructions

Run the Makefile using ``make``.
This program requires a compiler supporting C++20.

Installation with ``sudo make install``.

Commit message:

All dictionary expressions are now in lowercase. Added a note on encodings and locale in the readme.

ReadMe.md, after:


# fillwan 
## FILLWord ANalysis

This tool analyzes a given text for fill words and other potentially unwanted words and expressions in scientific writing.
Outputs statistics and a list of found words with occurrence count. With the ``-d`` option it dumps the original text with the expressions being highlighted.


### Analyzed Words/Expressions (English)

A list of some analyzed categories with examples can be found below.
All expressions are found in the [source file](src/words_en.hpp).

* first person perspective (I, my, we, our, ...)
* conjunctive (could, would, ...)
* transition words (but, therefore, ...)
* colloquial terms (okay, nice, stuff, ...)
* fill words (indeed, really, very, ...)
* weakening expressions (quite, most, probably, ...)
* words and adjectives with little meaning (good, right, thing, ...)
* commonly overused expression (be seen, is shown, for example, ...)


### Analysierte Wörter/Ausdrücke (German)

Eine Liste aller Ausdrücke befindet sich [im Quellcode](src/words_de.hpp).

* Personalpronomen (ich, mein, wir, uns, ...)
* Indefinitpronomen (man)
* Passivformen (wurde, werden, ...)
* Konjunktivformen (sei, wäre, könne, würde, ...)
* Füllwörter (auch, meist, wohl, ...)
* Konjunktionen und Satzverbindungen (außerdem, nichtsdestotrotz, im nächsten Schritt, ...)
* häufig überbenutzte Formulierungen ("zu sehen ist", "es ergibt sich", "in dieser Arbeit", ...)
* umgangssprachliche Formen (eh, halt, irgendwas, ...)
* ungenaue Adjektive oder Wörter mit wenig Aussagekraft (gut, schlecht, einigermaßen, oft, ...)

---
### Usage

The below program options are also displayed using the ``-h`` parameter.

```
usage: fillwan [options] [file]
reads from standard input if no file is provided

options:
-h | --help              display this help
-l | --lang (EN | DE)    language selection. English or German. Default: EN
-c | --color             enable colored output
-d | --dump              dump text with highlighted fill expressions
-a | --alpha             sort occurrence map alphabetically, not by count
```

For the following commands a Unix system including the ``grep``, ``cat``, and ``less`` utilities is assumed.

You can either pipe text into fillwan like:
```
cat text.txt | fillwan
```

Or load the text file directly:
```
fillwan text.txt
```

**Example 1**: Scroll interactively through the text with the expressions being highlighted:
```
cat text.txt | fillwan -cd | less -RN
```

**Example 2**: Scroll through all lines containing fill expressions, show line numbers from original text
```
cat text.txt | fillwan -d | grep --color=always -ne "<<[^>]\+>>" | less -R
```

---
### Screenshots

Default usage of fillwan, here showing statistics on a test text:

![fillwan showing statistics](screenshots/statistics_en-fs8.png)


The following command instead dumps the text with the expressions highlighted:

![fillwan example with dump option](screenshots/dump_en-fs8.png)


---
### Encoding and Locale

For implementation simplicity, all text is converted to std::wstring internally. 
Comparisons are then performed on a lowercase version of the text, generated using your system's configured locale. 
The internal word dictionaries include only lowercase expressions.

If issues with the locale settings or text encoding occur (on Windows, std::wstring typically uses UTF-16, 
while on Unix-like systems it often uses UTF-32), the text may need to be converted to lowercase using an external tool 
before processing it with this application.


---
### Building Instructions

There are no external dependencies.
Build the project using the Makefile.

Building and installing the application on Linux can be performed by running:
``sudo make install``.
